# FIWARE Cookies Policy
## Introdcution
In accordance with the applicable law regarding the use of
cookies in relation to the provision of electronic communication
services, We, the FIWARE Foundation e.V., hereby inform you about the
cookies used on the websites owned by us (hereinafter, the "Websites")
and why they are used. By browsing the Websites, you are giving your
consent for them to be used. The cookies used on our Websites include
both 'our own' and those of third parties and they enable us to store
and access information in relation to the language, the type of browser
used and other general characteristics predefined by the user, and also
to track and analyze the activity carried out in order to introduce
improvements and to provide our services in a more efficient,
personalized manner. Websites does not use advertising or behavioral
advertising cookies.

The use of cookies offers numerous advantages in the provision of
information technology services, because, among others:
1. They make it easier for the user to browse the Website and access the different services on offer
1. They mean that users do not have to set up the general, predefined characteristics each time they enter the Website
1. They enable us to improve the functioning and the services provided through the Website, after the corresponding analysis of the information obtained through the cookies installed.

However, users can set up their browsers to accept or reject cookies, or select those allowed and those excluded.
In the following are listed the procedures to be executed for the most popular browsers.

**Google Chrome**   
(in the Tools Menu): Settings \> Show advanced options \> Privacy (Content Settings) \>
Cookies   
More information: https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en.  

**Microsoft Internet Explorer**   
(in the Tools Menu): Internet \> Privacy \> Advanced   
More information: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies.  

**Firefox**   
Options \> Privacy \> Cookies   
More information: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enhanced-tracking-protection-firefox-desktop.    

**Safari**, iPad y iPhone   
Preferences \> Privacy   
More information: http://www.apple.com/privacy/use-of-cookies/

**Opera**   
Settings \> Preferences \> Advanced \> Cookies   
More information: http://help.opera.com/Linux/10.60/en/cookies.html

## Analytical cookies

Analytical cookies make it possible to track and analyse the behaviour of the users
of the websites with which they are associated.

## Cookies of FIWARE website (fiware.org).  

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

| Cookie | Owner | Duration | Purpose | Level |
|--------|-------|----------|---------|-------|
| NID | .google.com | 6 months | Google uses this cookie, like the PREF, to help customise ads on Google properties, like Google Search. | Level 2 |.  
| PHPSESSID | fi-ware.local | Expires with the session | Server cookie to keep server session | Level 1 |. 

- | \_ga ||
fi-ware.local || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting use stats
from the users of the portals || Level 2 |- | \_gat || fi-ware.local ||
2 years || This cookie is used for getting use stats from the users of
the portals || Level 2 |- | complianceCookie || fi-ware.local || 1 week
|| This cookie is used for showing cookies terms advice || Level 1 |- |
PREF || .youtube.com || 8 months || YouTube collects user data through
videos embedded in websites, which is aggregated with profile data from
other Google services in order to display targeted advertising to web
visitors across a broad range of their own and other websites. || Level
2 |- | VISITOR\_INFO1\_LIVE || .youtube.com || 8 months || YouTube
collects user data through videos embedded in websites, which is
aggregated with profile data from other Google services in order to
display targeted advertising to web visitors across a broad range of
their own and other websites. || Level 2 |- | YSC || .youtube.com ||
Expires with the session || YouTube collects user data through videos
embedded in websites, which is aggregated with profile data from other
Google services in order to display targeted advertising to web visitors
across a broad range of their own and other websites. || Level 2 |- |
CMDD || .casalemedia.com || 1 day || Used for Advertising monitoring and
retargeting. More info including opt-out at http://www.casalemedia.com/
|| Level 3 |- | CMID || .casalemedia.com || 1 year || Used for
Advertising monitoring and retargeting. More info including opt-out at
http://www.casalemedia.com/ || Level 3 |- | CMPS || .casalemedia.com ||
3 months || Used for Advertising monitoring and retargeting. More info
including opt-out at http://www.casalemedia.com/ || Level 3 |- | CMRUM3
|| .casalemedia.com || 1 year || Used for Advertising monitoring and
retargeting. More info including opt-out at http://www.casalemedia.com/
|| Level 3 |- | CMSC || .casalemedia.com || Expires with the session ||
Used for Advertising monitoring and retargeting. More info including
opt-out at http://www.casalemedia.com/ || Level 3 |- | CMST ||
.casalemedia.com || 1 day || Used for Advertising monitoring and
retargeting. More info including opt-out at http://www.casalemedia.com/
|| Level 3 |- | \_ga || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used for
Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchbidswitch || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month ||
Used for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchbluekai || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchcasale || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchdemdex || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchfbx || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used for
Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchgoogle || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchopenx || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchpubmatic || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month ||
Used for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchspotx || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | matchyahoo || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | wfivefivec || Dataxu.com via .w55c.net || 1 month || Used
for Web Traffic statistics and ad interaction monitoring. More info
including opt-out at
http://www.dataxu.com/about-us/privacy/data-collection-platform/ ||
Level 3 |- | EQUser || .eqads.com || 3 months || Collecting information
at aggregate level for site scoring for advertising companies. More info
including opt-out at http://www.eqworks.com/about/privacy-policy/ ||
Level 3 |}



\= Cookies of FIWARE Lab = Specifically, on the user's device,
fiware.org stores the analytical cookies of Google Analytics. Users can
exclude their individual activity by means of the exclusion systems
facilitated by
<http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout Google Analytics>.

{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em auto 1em auto" cellpadding="10"
cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | \_\_utma || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || 2 years || This
cookie keeps a record of the number of times a user has visited a site,
and when the first and last visits were. || level 2

|-

| \_\_utmc || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || Expires with the
session || This cookie helps to calculate how long a user's visit lasts,
storing the time the user exits the page. || level 2

|- | \_\_utmz || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || Expires with the
session || This cookie keeps track of where the visitor comes from,
which search engine was used, which link he/she clicked on, what key
words were used and from where in the world the page was accessed. ||
level 2

|- | JSESSIONID || cloud.lab.fi-ware.org \<br/\> PaaS Manager || Expires
with the session || This cookie is generated by Servlet container like
Tomcat or Jetty and used for session management in J2EE web application
for http protocol. || level 1

|- | JSESSIONID || cloud.lab.fi-ware.org \<br/\> SDC || Expires with the
session || This cookie is generated by Servlet container like Tomcat or
Jetty and used for session management in J2EE web application for http
protocol. || level 1

|- | connect.sid || cloud.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session ||
This cookie keeps the session of an authenticated user in the Cloud
Portal || level 1

|- | expires\_in || cloud.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session ||
This cookie saves information about the validation time of an
authenticated user token || level 1

|- | oauth\_token || cloud.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session
|| This cookie saves information about the authentication token that a
user uses to connect || level 1

|- | \_fi-ware-idm\_session || account.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with
the session || This cookie keeps the session of an authenticated user in
the Account Portal || level 1

|- | wstoreoil\_sid || store.lab.fi-ware.org || 2 weeks || This cookie
keeps the session of an authenticated user in the Store portal || level
1

|- | oil\_sid || mashup.lab.fi-ware.org || 2 weeks || This cookie keeps
the session of an authenticated user in the Mashup portal || level 1

|- || \_ga || .fi-ware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting
use stats from the users of the portals || level 2

|- | auth\_tkt || data.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session ||
This cookie saves information about the authentication token that a user
uses to connect || level 1

|- | auth\_tkt || .data.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session ||
This cookie saves information about the authentication token that a user
uses to connect || level 1

|- | ckan || data.lab.fi-ware.org || Expires with the session || This
cookie keeps the session of an authenticated user in the data portal ||
level 1

|- | PREF || help.lab.fi-ware.org \<br/\> youtube/google || 1 year ||
YouTube collects user data through videos embedded in websites, which is
aggregated with profile data from other Google services in order to
display targeted advertising to web visitors across a broad range of
their own and other websites. || level 2

|- | NID || help.lab.fi-ware.org \<br/\> youtube/google || 6 months ||
Google uses this cookie, like the PREF, to help customise ads on Google
properties, like Google Search. || level 2 |}. 

\= Cookies of FIWARE Q\&A = {| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em auto
1em auto" cellpadding="10" cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | \_csrf || ask.fiware.org || 1 year || This cookie is used to avoid
"Cross-site request forgery" attacks. || level 2 |- | \_ga ||
.fi-ware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting use stats
from the users of the portals. || level 2 |- | askbot\_visitor ||
ask.fiware.org || Expires with the session || This cookie is used to
show a popup/welcome the first time an user visits this website. ||
level 2 |- | sessionid || ask.fiware.org || 2 weeks || This cookie is
used as session identifier. || level 1 |- | popup\_cookie ||
ask.fiware.org || 1 hour || This cookie is used to show/hide an
informative cookie popup || level 1 |}

\= Cookies of FIWARE Mailing Lists Website = {| class="wikitable"
style="margin: 1em auto 1em auto" cellpadding="10" cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | \_ga || .fi-ware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting
use stats from the users of the portals. || level 2 |- | name of the
mailing list + user || lists.fiware.org || Expires with the session ||
This cookie is used as session identifier. || level 1 |}

\= Cookies of FIWARE Academy = Specifically, on the user's device,
fiware.org stores the analytical cookies of Google Analytics. Users can
exclude their individual activity by means of the exclusion systems
facilitated by
<http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout Google Analytics>.

{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em auto 1em auto" cellpadding="10"
cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | MoodleSession || edu.fiware.org || Session || To keep the reference
of the current session || level 1 |- | \_ga || .fiware.org || 2 years ||
This cookie is used for getting use stats from the users of the portals
|| level 2 |- | \_gat || .fiware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used
for getting use stats from the users of the portals || level 2 |- |
popup\_cookie || edu.fiware.org || 1 hour || This cookie is used to show
a popup/welcome the first time an user visits this website || level 2 |}

\= Cookies of FIWARE Catalogue = Specifically, on the user's device,
fiware.org stores the analytical cookies of Google Analytics. Users can
exclude their individual activity by means of the exclusion systems
facilitated by
<http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout Google Analytics>.

{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em auto 1em auto" cellpadding="10"
cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | \_\_utma || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || 2 years || This
cookie keeps a record of the number of times a user has visited a site,
and when the first and last visits were. || level 2

|-

| \_\_utmc || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || Expires with the
session || This cookie helps to calculate how long a user's visit lasts,
storing the time the user exits the page. || level 2

|- | \_\_utmz || google-analytics.com \<br/\> ga.js || Expires with the
session || This cookie keeps track of where the visitor comes from,
which search engine was used, which link he/she clicked on, what key
words were used and from where in the world the page was accessed. ||
level 2

|- | has\_js || catalogue.fiware.org || Expires with the session || This
cookie indicates that the Drupal instance contains custom javascript
files || level 1

|- | Drupal.tableDrag.showWeight || catalogue.fiware.org || 1 year ||
This cookie stores user interface preferences || level 1

|- | \_ga || .fi-ware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting
use stats from the users of the portals || level 2

|- | \_gat || .fi-ware.org || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting
use stats from the users of the portals || level 2

|- | cookie-agreed || catalogue.fiware.org || 3 months || This cookie
indicates that you have already read the cookie policies || level 1 |}



\= Cookies of FIWARE backlog = {| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em
auto 1em auto" cellpadding="10" cellspacing="2"

# style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Cookie || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Owner || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Duration || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Purpose || style="background:\#82B4D8; text-align:center;" | Level

|- | \_ga || fi-ware.local || 2 years || This cookie is used for getting
use stats from the users of the portals || Level 2 |- | \_\_cfduid||
.highcharts.com || 1 year|| This cookie overrides any security
restrictions based on the IP address the visitor is coming from. It does
not contain any user identification information|| Level 2 |}

\=Cookie Levels= The cookies detailed above are graded on an
"intrusiveness level " on a scale of 1 to 3, in which:

  - Level 1: corresponds to internally-used cookies that are essential
    for provision of the service requested by the user.
  - Level 2: corresponds to anonymous, internally-used cookies necessary
    for the maintenance of contents and browsing, as well as cookies
    managed by third parties in the framework of services expressly
    requested by the user on their websites (e.g. Social Plugins from
    Facebook or Twitter).
  - Level 3: corresponds to cookies managed by third parties in the
    framework of services not expressly requested by the user,
    permitting tracking of these through websites not owned by FIWARE
    (e.g. graphic advertising management platforms). The specification
    of this level is accompanied by its owner. The use of level 3
    cookies is subject to the user's prior permission by means of
    express confirmation of acceptance.
